Just Back: High Tide in La Serenissima 
Waking to the air raid siren I slowly 
30 
The concierge, Barbara, asked if we would 
realized that this would be no ordinary dawn 
like "eggs, perhaps a little pancetta, a few 
in Venice. From the third-floor window of our 
mushrooms?" We waded into breakfast, and 
hotel a few yards from St Mark's Square, we 
were offered advice by Barbara's impeccably6 
5 
could see two canals. Beside them, people 
dressed colleague, Gigi. The courtyard was 
were splashing their way along the pavements. 
35 
deeply submerged and leaving the hotel would 
We had read about the acque alte, the high 
be inadvisable before the tide had receded7- 
tides that briefly submerge parts of Venice in 
in five hours. Ah, well. Best tuck in. 
winter, and thought we knew what to expect. 
Twenty minutes, some fine food and several 
10 
But we were wrong. Slowly at first, then faster, 
coffees later, the lights went out and, finally, 
the canals began to rise. On this, our first day 
40 
the power. Leaving Gigi and Barbara to raise 
in the city, the waters of the lagoon, due to a 
the furniture yet another 18 inches, we 
full moon and a strong southeasterly wind out 
retreated upstairs to our room, where Venetian 
in the Adriatic, would rise up to engulf Venice 
foresight (and separate circuits) had left us 
15 
as no invader had in a thousand years. 
power, light, and heat. Outside, gondolas 
It was not yet eight, and leaning from our 
45 
could not pass under bridges. On the Web, the 
window we watched as the waters rose, first 
sinking of Venice was once again news. 
to ankle height, then to full calf height, and 
Later, we would literally wade through an 
finally beyond the knee. We decided it was time 
afternoon's sightseeing in this captivating 
20 
to dive downstairs for breakfast. 
city, surfacing only to cross the Grand Canal 
The water was there before us, flooding the 
50 
by traghetto (the traditional gondola ferry). 
ground floor to a depth of perhaps 18 inches, 
Streets filled with flotsam.8 Seagulls bobbed9 
and rising. It would be another three hours 
on squares. On our return to the hotel, though, 
until high tide. Soft sofas were propped up on 
only the tidemarks betrayed1( the highest 
25 milk crates. Antique sideboards3 were raised 
acqua alta in forty years. Had it all been a 
on chests. On the last dry stairs sat a selection 
55 
dream? How could your very first morning in 
of boots for guests' use. There was even a pair 
Venice be anything else? 
for me, with my very large size 46 feet. These 
Venetians knew the meaning of "be prepared." 
